[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
Gaiam Inspirations ,
and my guest today
believes that the quality
of your life mirrors the quality
of the questions that you ask.
Communication expert
and transformational leader
Niurka asked herself these
empowering questions to create
lasting results in her life.
And so, we're going
to start today's show
with a question for you.
How can you be even more aware
of the unlimited opportunities
that surround you in
your life right now?
And that is exactly the question
that Niurka asked herself
and that's what we're going
to be discussing today,
about unlimited possibilities
through your thoughts
and your words.
Welcome to the show.
Thanks for being here.
>> Niurka: Thank you.
I'm thrilled to be
here with you.
>> Lisa: Me, too.
This is going to be such a
great hour because you're
such a fascinating woman and
you have so much texture to you.
So tell me first of all,
where were you raised,
your upbringing?
Where did you guys
come from, your family?
>> Niurka: I was born in Miami.
>> Lisa: Miami.
>> Niurka: And my family came
from Cuba, they were fleeing
from the Castro regime,
and I grew up there.
And, you know, I left
when I was 15 years old.
>> Lisa: Why did you leave?
Why did you leave?
>> Niurka: I -- you know,
I always joke and say
that I was on this quest.
But it was true, it was a quest.
It was a quest for freedom and
for truth and for enlightenment.
I was really -- but back then,
I called it running away
from home [laughter].
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Running
away from home.
I was.
>> Lisa: 15?
>> Niurka: 15 years old.
>> Lisa: Frustrated with what?
>> Niurka: I was
frustrated because --
of my inability to communicate
with my family, but also,
I had a lot of unanswered
questions.
>> Lisa: Did you feel that
you were different than them
or you didn't fit in or?
>> Niurka: I felt
different most of my life.
I mean, I grew up with
a very loving household.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: A very
strict household.
But a lot of the
questions that I had,
I had a very expansive
imagination, a lot of ideas.
I knew inside that
I had a purpose,
although I had no idea
what that was or how
to bring it into reality.
And I started asking
a lot of questions.
Like, who am I?
And what's my purpose?
And why am I here?
You know, what is the
universe and who is God?
And.
>> Lisa: Was anybody else
in your family asking
those questions?
>> Niurka: It was
in a different way.
They were following very
specific, you know, paths.
specific doctrines, you know.
And I had really big questions
about the nature of existence
and the nature of life.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: And I didn't feel
that there was a place there
to really be understood and to.
>> Lisa: I can see this
started at an early age.
We have this great picture
of you at two years old
and you basically look
just mad [laughter].
Because, like, this
is not working for me.
Look at this picture.
You're at church, right?
>> Niurka: That's funny.
I do remember that.
That's...
>> Lisa: You do?
>> Niurka: ...me
at two years old.
I remember that day.
And if you look all the way
in the back, my mom and my dad
and my brother, they're back
there and I remember being upset
because I felt that I had
direct connection to spirit
or a connection to source.
And although I loved
the ceremonial part
and the ritual of.
>> Lisa: Church.
>> Niurka: Yes.
I really had a challenge
with the idea that I had
to have someone intercede
on my behalf.
>> Lisa: [Laughter]
You did not like that.
>> Niurka: And I just
knew it and I was made.
>> Lisa: So fast-forward
to 15 years.
You decide to run
away from home.
>> Niurka: I did.
>> Lisa: And where did you go?
>> Niurka: You know, I
didn't know where to go.
I went from couch to couch
to couch for a while.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: I stayed
with friends.
I mean, at the time I had a
old beat up red Honda Civic
and sometimes I would sleep
in my car or I would drive
to the airport and I would
watch the planes fly.
And I would imagine that I
was on one of those planes
and that I was going somewhere,
to some far exotic land,
and that I was creating
this life that was different
than the one that I was living.
And.
>> Lisa: You had big dreams.
>> Niurka: I had bid dreams.
And then, eventually, you know,
things got really challenging
and I did go back home for a
period of time and, you know,
really intended to
reconnect with my parents.
Because I knew somehow
that I would never evolve
unless I figured out how to...
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: ...come into
a space of harmony.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Niurka: Coming
into a space of unity.
>> Lisa: So then, how
did you connect with --
and I understand
that you became one
of Tony Robbins' lead
sales girls as a teenager,
which is no small task.
I mean, that is something
that people.
>> Niurka: I was 19 when I...
>> Lisa: 19.
>> Niurka: ...started
working with him.
>> Lisa: People wait, I mean,
try to get to that
level 30, 40 years old.
How did you master
the task of sales
in the Tony Robbins
platform at 19?
>> Niurka: How did
I master the sales?
Well, I was committed.
I was, like, devoted to figure
out a way to experience freedom.
Freedom was a big drive for me.
And at the time, freedom meant
having the financial abundance
to be able to fully
be self-sufficient
and take of myself.
So nobody would hire
me because --
for a job because I was the kid.
You know, a regular
paying salary job.
So the only job I could
get was 100% commission.
Now, originally I didn't
get hired for Tony Robbins.
I actually got hired by a
promoter who used to put
on events for Brian Tracy and
some other speakers and experts.
And they used to call
me The Kid back then.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And, you know,
what ended up happening
was he went bankrupt.
>> Lisa: Oh, the promoter.
>> Niurka: The promoter
went bankrupt
and didn't pay me my last check,
which was an $8,000 check.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: Instead, he gave
me a big black suitcase
of personal development tapes.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: And said, "You
can keep all the tapes, Kid.
It's just business."
And I was like, wow.
How you do your business
is how you live your life.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: So I drove
to the desert,
not knowing where I was going
to go, what I was going to do,
listening to these tapes.
>> Lisa: Tony Robbins?
>> Niurka: They were
all kinds of tapes.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: Tony was in there
and they had all
different types of experts.
And I went down there
and I started searching.
I started hiking, not knowing
what I was going to do next.
And I started searching.
You know, what is my purpose
and what am I here to do?
What, you know, what
is the next step?
And what is the highest choice?
And I started reading and
journaling and asking questions.
And then, I got a phone call.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: And then,
I got a phone call
on this roaming 800 number
that I had and it was someone
who had worked at the
previous company who went
to go work with Tony Robbins.
And they had told
them about this kid
who had broken a
lot of the records.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Niurka: And then,
I got a call.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Niurka: And they said,
"We heard about you.
Send us a video."
>> Lisa: Did you have.
>> Niurka: I didn't
have a video [laughter].
I went and bought a video
camera and shot a video
of myself doing a presentation
without an audience.
>> Lisa: That is such a,
I mean, it's a great story
in so many ways, because you
have -- you started from nothing
and you just kept
asking the questions
and you're insatiably
curious and you needed to find
out what made you tick.
And then, opportunities
would just come.
It's like when you --
the paper lays itself
down as you put your foot on it.
And in -- that seems to be
the way that you were living.
Many of us live our
lives like this,
but you have figured it out.
So you went to go -- you
went to meet with Tony
and you obviously got that job.
>> Niurka: I did.
>> Lisa: And where
did that take you?
>> Niurka: You know, it took
me to the place of knowing
that all the power to create
my life by design is within me.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: It took me in to
that place of knowingness.
And when you say that the
ground is there for you,
it's like you don't know.
I used to say to myself
that with faith the size
of a mustard seed, I
will move mountains.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: And what I found was
that when I would come
into a situation...
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: ...grounded in that,
just hauling in, you know,
that certainty, that faith,
that I was always given
firm ground to walk on.
Or sometimes, I would say, which
is a great quote, wings to fly.
>> Lisa: Yes.
Yes. We have a picture
here of you with Tony
and you're -- you look great.
>> Niurka: I was
blonde back then.
>> Lisa: You were a little.
>> Niurka: So.
>> Lisa: I mean, you were a kid.
And so, that took you to
places all over the world.
You got to travel, right?
>> Niurka: 16 different
cities in just
under fie years while
I was working with him.
Plus some of the
international travels.
>> Lisa: And you got to --
you were just a sponge for
the information, right?
>> Niurka: I was a sponge.
I was -- plus, it wasn't
just the work with Tony.
I was consistently studying.
I took every ancient wisdom
text, the  Bhagavata , you know,
the  Upanishads , the  Veddas .
You know,  A Course in
Miracles , New Thought texts,
that's mine -- all of these
and I made them a study.
So I was very deep into Jnana
Yoga, or the path of knowledge,
or the path of wisdom,
or seeking to understand.
>> Lisa: Do you feel
that you have --
this is something that
you've done before?
Does this feel familiar to you?
>> Niurka: My life's work?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: In what way?
>> Niurka: It's a flow.
It's timeless.
It's like I forget
everything and I slip
into this eternal realm where
things are flowing through me.
There's no trying.
>> Lisa: Tell me
about that knowing.
That knowing, that
it is timeless.
>> Niurka: The knowing that it's
timeless, it's like you come
into this place where
you expand.
You feel this expansion.
It's almost like you're
holding a container.
And there is no what about
this or what about that?
There's none of these thoughts.
It's all unity, it's all one.
And then, from that place,
you're able to receive all.
You're able to navigate
through anything.
And things come to you.
Yeah. You live in gratitude.
>> Lisa: Ah.
So.
>> Niurka: You live
in appreciation.
You live in beauty.
You create value.
You're in the creative space.
>> Lisa: In that slow.
In this picture that we have of
you at this Wall Street bull...
>> Niurka: That's a.
>> Lisa: ...your body caught
up to what you were creating.
You look pretty excited.
You're what -- tell us
a little bit about this.
>> Niurka: This is so
great because this is
like coming full circle at
the beginning of my career,
what launched my career.
I mean, this picture
was actually taken
when I was working
with Tony Robbins,
but the first time I had my
experience on Wall Street,
with the Wall Street
charging bull, if you will,
was when I worked for
that previous promoter.
>> Lisa: Oh, interesting.
>> Niurka: That's a
very interesting story
because back then, I was the kid
and I would get all
the appointments
that no one else wanted.
It was like the scraps.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: But I started seeing
myself producing the results
that I wanted in my mind.
I started envisioning it.
Big and bright and crisp and
clear and fully expansive.
And then, one day I
had opportunity call.
And I remember it was on
my brick-sized cell phone.
It was back with -- one of
those and my manager said,
"Can you get to Wall Street?
We have a very important
appointment.
It's been scheduled for weeks.
They're expecting
the top trainer.
Everybody else is in meetings
and he had an emergency
and you're our last choice."
>> Lisa: Oh.
Not -- still that
great [laughter].
>> Niurka: And I
said, "I'm ready."
>> Lisa: Wow.
Wow.
>> Niurka: And I went down
there and I remember, you know,
I took the underground
and I ran up the stairs
and I locked eyes
with this bull.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: And I felt terror.
19. I remember I had real
curly hair and a velvet jacket
that I bought at
the thrift store...
>> Lisa: [Laughter] Wow.
>> Niurka: ...that I used
to recycle with my outfits.
And when I took the elevator
up to that penthouse floor
of this big firm and it
opened the doors and I went
to the receptionist and I said,
"I'm the trainer that's
scheduled to do your, you know,
your sales mastery
workshop this morning."
She looked at me like, "Grab
a seat," and she called
up the leader and she said
-- I'll never forget this.
She said, "Shirley
Temple's here to see you."
>> Lisa: Oh [laughter].
In front of you?
>> Niurka: Well, yeah.
And he...
>> Lisa: Oh, wow.
>> Niurka: ...walked out
looking for the trainer,
like, over my shoulder.
And I'll never forget the
first thing he asked me.
He said, "Are you going
to do this by yourself?"
>> Lisa: Oh, wow.
>> Niurka: And I walked in there
and I poured my heart, mind,
and soul into this presentation
that I had created
all by myself.
And then, at the end
a miracle happened.
It was very challenging
for a while.
There was a lot of
tension in the room.
And the, the decision
maker looked at me
and he said, "I'm going."
He said -- and he got up
and he actually said
something a little different.
He said to everybody else, "This
kid's got balls to come in here
and talk to you like this."
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Niurka: And I'm going.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: And then, it was
a huge success that day.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
>> Niurka: And the next
day, he had me on the floor
of the Stock Exchange
and introduced me
to all the major players
and made phone calls
to all the other leaders
within the company.
That was the beginning
of my career.
>> Lisa: Oh, what
a success story.
>> Niurka: That was
the beginning.
>> Lisa: But it's because --
now, I know that you
practice the techniques
of neuro-linguistic programming
and you've learned it
and you've perfected
it and evolved it.
And so, for -- but those
techniques really worked
for you, didn't they,
in the beginning?
>> Niurka: They did.
>> Lisa: In the beginning.
>> Niurka: And it
was a combination.
It was never really just
like NLP techniques.
I was really looking for how all
this different wisdom connected
with everything else.
I always loved making
connections.
So it was my spiritual practice,
my study, my, you know,
learnings into the
realms of language.
>> Lisa: That's one of the
things I love about NLP,
is that it is so malleable.
You can -- I mean,
it wasn't designed
that way, but you can shape it.
It's there to help you create
something more with it.
>> Niurka: Absolutely.
It's like a framework
is how I see it.
>> Lisa: So what have you
evolved that into now,
those techniques
that you learned,
that you use, that
you've shaped?
>> Niurka: Sure.
>> Lisa: What are those now?
>> Niurka: Well,
NLP, which stands
for neuro-linguistic programing.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: Okay?
And it studies human
excellence and --
that studies the hidden
determinants of behavior,
what makes people
do what they do.
A lot of these teachings
teach into the mind.
You know, connecting
your conscious mind
with your subconscious mind
so you could really
be in alignment.
And teaches a lot
into the mental body.
Now, we have all of these
different aspects to who we are.
You know, we're multi
dimensional beings.
So what I've done with my
work as I've, you know,
evolved it to bring in the
wisdom of how do you teach
into the mental body,
the emotional body,
the energetic body, you
know, the physical body, too,
and connecting to the
wisdom of the heart.
>> Lisa: Very nice.
And.
>> Niurka: NLP a lot of
times is in the head.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: And the
head can miscreate.
If you're using your
will to create something,
sometimes you got to
unwind what you just did.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: When you connect
the wisdom of your mind
with the wisdom of your heart
and you let your heard lead
and then your mind becomes this
powerful tool to bring things
into actualization, now
you're creating an alignment
with your true purpose.
Now you're creating an
alignment with your true will.
The will of your authentic self.
>> Lisa: And this is what
you call supreme influence?
>> Niurka: Yes.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: Supreme
influence is a way of living.
It is a way of being.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: And when
you're living this way,
you create harmony, cooperative
harmonious relationships.
You produce successful
results as a natural action.
And.
>> Lisa: I would just say,
I just saw the movie  Jobs
about Steve Jobs and we're
talking a little bit about this,
about how much of a
visionary and like --
and, I mean, a stratospheric
visionary.
He was. And to create what
he created, with that vision,
back in the '80s or
whatever, he had --
or the '60s, of a
personal computer
in every single person's
living room,
which had never even
been thought of.
There were mainframes in giant
buildings with giant servers.
And he had this vision, but
to get that communicated.
His original vision was
to do it with heart.
He had heart as the
center of his intention.
But it didn't get translated
through to what it became,
a major corporation
with the boardroom.
And, I mean, the members of
the board and the officers
of the corporation didn't
go that far with it.
So he had a challenge with that.
So when you say supreme
influence, I mean,
I know that you've
studied his work as well
and read his book and so forth.
Where could he have used that,
those techniques, to infiltrate
that sense of heart
into his vision?
To marry that massive vision
and heart into a corporation?
>> Niurka: Into corporations.
And that's a lot of the work
that I do in corporations...
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: ...is really --
coming from the nucleus,
that center of what is
the heart of our purpose?
What is the heart
of our company?
And how do we communicate
that on all levels?
I mean, one is living it fully.
I mean, I know that he had a
vision, which was with heart.
You know, really coming
into an awareness.
Am I fully living?
As the leader, you know, am I
full living the full experience
of this heart-centered mission?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: And then, how can I
align with a close core group
of people and engage them
in that same conversation?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: So -- because
a company is only as good
as the conversations
happening within that company.
Just like a family is
going to be a reflection
of the conversations
in that family.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: A nation is
going to be the reflection
of the conversations
in the nation.
So I would have said alignment.
First, alignment.
Alignment within the leader.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Alignment within him.
>> Niurka: See, Steve
was a genius.
I think inside at some levels,
there were some misalignments
that he was experiencing.
And, you know, it's a
great insight to go,
hmm, let me get curious...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: ...about that.
I'm a fan of his work.
I'm thrilled because, I mean,
his vision transformed
the way we.
>> Lisa: Communicate.
Absolutely.
>> Niurka: And what I love
about him is he was committed
to bring it in with
elegance and beauty.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
And style.
Yeah.
>> Niurka: And style.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: So first,
that inner alignment.
Then, alignment within the team.
And then, aligning
the practices.
You know, how you
treat your employees.
How you treat your team.
You know, what decisions do
you truly make day-to-day?
And are those decisions
grounded in the heart center?
>> Lisa: That is true.
Most corporations do
lose sight of that
because they're chasing the
bottom line, which, of course,
needs to pay for the businesses.
But it does -- yeah.
How do you have heart to pay
for the bottom line is
the interesting challenge.
We're going to take a look at
Niurka at work here on stage
at one of the business
conferences
that she's lectured at.
Take a look.
>> A lot of other things
have changed throughout the
organization and our pipeline
is about five times larger
at Proforma as we go towards
being almost a half a billion
dollar company to a
billion dollar company.
Right? It's all about
your pipeline.
Our pipeline at Proform
has transformed thanks
to Niurka's teaching.
>> Niurka: The quality
of your life,
the quality of your
results, mirrors the quality
of the mental and emotional
states that you frequent.
Yes. What if you knew that
you create as you speak,
that your word has
that much power?
That when you're speaking,
you are literally speaking
into existence and that every
cell in your body aligns
with what you declare?
The words I Am have power.
Whatever you speak after the
words I Am you will attract,
you will create,
and you will become.
How you move influences
how you feel.
Flexibility is power.
The most flexible person
in any interaction is
the influencing factor.
People don't respond to reality.
They respond to their
map of reality.
So your ability to really tune
in, ask the right questions,
to elicit someone's map.
That's why one of my
favorite questions is How So?
Whenever someone says, "How so?
How do you mean?"
begin to gather more information
so you could really speaking
into their listening.
It's having the sensory acuity,
which means the awareness
to know first where
is your state?
Before you pick up that phone
to schedule that appointment,
before you pick up the phone
to schedule the appointment,
before you go into that
meeting, where is your state?
Your ability to influence
your world of opportunities is
to really be able
to see what kind
of person you're
communicating with.
Having the awareness,
having the sensory acuity
to realize everybody's
different.
Everybody's unique.
They have their own
specific ways.
And when you can tune into
that, then you can speak
into their listening and
inspire Yes and inspire action.
So one of the keys is
becoming very aware,
very conscious of my language.
Not just the language you
use with your clients.
First, the language
you use with yourself.
You know why this is so
important is because in life
and in business, you do
not describe what you see
but rather you see
what you describe.
The ultimate rapport is?
The ultimate rapport is
rapport with you and you.
How many of you have
ever felt where a part
of you wants one
thing and another part
of you wants something
else and you feel torn?
You're out of rapport
with yourself.
So my life's work is all about
bringing that into that unity.
Okay?
>> Lisa: So tell me a little
bit more about supreme influence
and how -- and what you teach
that creates the lasting
results I was talking about?
>> Niurka: Okay.
So supreme refers to the
most empowered authentic you.
And influence, as I define
it, is in word fluency.
So it's when your thoughts,
your words, your language,
your body language, your
beliefs, your goals,
your values, your sense of self,
your vision are all
genuinely on the same page.
>> Lisa: Ah.
>> Niurka: In alignment.
And when you're living a life
that's congruent in that way,
that's where you have
power, inner power.
So my courses, my
curriculums, my trainings,
my retreats are all about
creating that inner alignment.
What stops people sometimes
is they feel fragmented.
It's like a part of them
wants this and a part
of them wants that, and
they feel this push-pull.
So it's about bringing
all of this into unity.
>> Lisa: So.
>> Niurka: So you tap into
your intuitive wisdom,
you tap into higher
consciousness.
>> Lisa: Sometimes,
that requires breaking
old habits, though.
So...
>> Niurka: Uh-huh.
>> Lisa: ...if you're trying
to go into a new level,
a new realm, and you've got
this vision and you want
to create that, yet you go back
to old habits during your
day-to-day unconscious life,
which -- it happens,
which absolutely happen,
how do you constantly
live that vision
when you're doing
mundane things?
>> Niurka: Okay.
Well, that's why
it's important to be
in a different conversation.
I mean, when I do my courses
and retreats, I'll bring people
for two days, three
days, five days.
>> Lisa: Uh-huh.
>> Niurka: To bring them out of
that environment, so they're not
in that usual automatic
response, and then guide them
through specific practices.
Like if someone's doing a habit.
For example, I'll give you
just an insight on a habit
because that's one of the
words that we're talking about,
is there's a trigger or
something that happens
that launches in that old habit.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: So whatever
that is.
They hear something and then
all of sudden they have that...
>> Lisa: Respond.
>> Niurka: ...that stream
of negative thoughts...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: ...or
whatever that is.
So.
>> Lisa: Or negative
response or -- yes.
>> Niurka: Or -- exactly.
So what I'll do is
I'll guide them
to undercover what's
that trigger?
And I do this through
questions, I do this through,
you know, specific inquiries.
What's the trigger?
And then, I have them come
to a clear understanding
of what is it that I've
been doing in the past?
And then, what I do is I have
them create a clear image
of what they'd like
to do instead.
>> Lisa: Instead of
having that trigger.
>> Niurka: Instead of
having the trigger lead you
to this series of, you know,
let's say whatever that is.
They're sitting at the table
and they are overeating
for a very similar,
or a simple, example.
There's a sequence of
events that happens,
and it's pretty consistent.
So when I can create
a new vision, a new --
I call it an internal
representation,
a new possibility, and
they're in that possibility,
it's not just something
out there, they're in it.
It's big, bright, crisp, and
clear and they're looking
through their own eyes and
they're fully integrated
in that, then I can guide
them through a process to have
that new vision replace...
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: ...that old pattern.
And so, it's becoming really
crystal clear about that
and doing a visualization
around it
and replacing it
with the old pattern.
>> Niurka: It's -- yes.
Because it's creating
a powerful vision
that you're literally
moved towards.
>> Lisa: That's what it means
to co-create your future.
I would say to create it,
to create a new future.
To break out of the box
from where you came from
and what ignited you to
something that's different.
>> Niurka: You got to see it.
Absolutely.
You got to create -- it's
very difficult for someone
to create a result if they
can't see in their mind.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: You've got to
create your results up here,
and that's what all the best
athletes of the world do.
That's what the greatest
entertainers...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: ...they create
their results in advance
in their mind, and
then they step into it.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
It's interesting, because
sometimes you can get lost
in those, though, those
details of what it means to you.
So say the athlete, and then
they got lost in the training
and then they don't actually --
don't go to the competitions.
Or if you get lost
in the details
of something, to
try to create it.
Do you know what I mean?
>> Niurka: Absolutely.
That's why I teach something
in one of my courses called --
and I call it being very
specific in the abstract.
>> Lisa: Oh.
That's.
>> Niurka: [Laughter] It's like
a little brain floss, right?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Niurka: So it's like you get
really clear about what it is
that you're intending to create,
although you're anchored
into the essence.
That way, you don't
get tunnel vision.
>> Lisa: Give me an example.
>> Niurka: Okay.
So for example, let's say that
somebody wants to envision
that they're going to, you
know, purchase their new car.
Okay? And they want to,
you know, materialize
or manifest a new -- all right.
If they start seeing
themselves in a particular car,
it's a particular color.
I've got this Porsche 911
Turbo, it's red, it's da da da.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Then, they start
getting very anchored in, right,
to a particular reality.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: If you can just get
clear with what is the essence
of what I ultimately want,
and this is interesting
because when I first
started my company,
I actually got my
very first car --
I was 24 years old
and I got it on trade
at a Mercedes-Benz dealership.
A brand new red Mercedes
and I knew that day.
I said I'm going
to manifest a car
and I'm going to do it on trade.
Isn't that interesting?
>> Lisa: What did you trade?
>> Niurka: And I traded my
corporate training services
that didn't even
exist yet [laughter].
I had literally just
transitioned from Tony Robbins.
I wasn't sure what
I was going to do.
>> Lisa: Oh my gosh.
>> Niurka: I just
knew I couldn't be
on the road any more.
I was so grateful for
my experience there.
I just was ready
for a new journey.
And within four days,
I said, okay.
I'm off the road.
I had rented cars
for five years.
I said it's essential
for me to get a car.
And then, I said I'm
going to trade for it.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: Because I was 24.
I didn't have a lot of credit.
I made -- all the money I made,
I was mostly on a cash basis.
And I went in and I
traded for a brand new car.
But when I knew that that's
what I was going to create,
I started seeing it, specific
and the abstract, in my mind.
Meaning it could have
been a red Mercedes,
but it could have
been a black Porsche
or it could have been a
silver BMW or a whatever.
It was the experience.
What is the essence of it.
And that's so important
because...
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: ...a lot of times,
people want to materialize it
or manifest is a popular word.
>> Lisa: The detail.
>> Niurka: A relationship.
You know, you can't be
looking for 6'2", dark hair,
blue eyes, and, you know...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: ...because you
might miss that person that is
so perfect for you
as your beloved
because you're so
in tunnel vision.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: So it's about
being clear, but expanded.
>> Lisa: Wait.
So you traded your services.
>> Niurka: I did.
>> Lisa: What did you do?
I went in and met with
them for about eight hours.
On the whole way down there,
I was asking myself
empowering questions.
You were talking about
empowering questions earlier.
>> Lisa: Okay.
Okay.
>> Niurka: You know,
I was saying
to myself how can I communicate
with this person in a way
where they know for a fact
that I'm the best person
on the planet to help
them reach their vision?
How can I create.
>> Lisa: This is
the sales person?
>> Niurka: This is me -- no.
The leader.
>> Lisa: Oh, you did it.
Wow.
>> Niurka: The decision maker.
You know, I'm asking myself
all these questions before I
walked in.
By the time I walked in,
the deal was already
done in my mind.
>> Lisa: Oh.
Oh.
>> Niurka: And I basically --
we consecrated that deal on a
handshake and then I came back
and I said I'm going
to put together this training
curriculum and I came in
and I customized it for them.
>> Lisa: And.
>> Niurka: And it
opened a lot of doors.
>> Lisa: For them?
>> Niurka: Well, not only
for them, but it opened doors
for a number of different
opportunities in corporations,
with other Mercedes-Benz
and a number of other.
Matter of fact, within
a few months of that,
I started doing consulting
and training for one
of the top Mercedes-Benz
dealers.
And within seven months
of working with me,
they became number
one in the world.
>> Lisa: Oh my God.
>> Niurka: At the time,
for Mercedes-Benz.
And then, they became the
number two dealer of all dealers
in the United States;
all makes and models.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness,
within seven months.
>> Niurka: Within seven months.
>> Lisa: And you had no
idea what you were doing
when you were trying.
You just wanted a car.
>> Niurka: I was reading.
>> Lisa: That's right.
>> Niurka: I'd go to the
bookstore and I'd get books
on consulting and management and
I was self-teaching myself this.
But I was hungry and I
was committed and I cared.
I cared.
>> Lisa: Where do
you get this fire?
Where do you get this passion?
Where do you get that fire?
>> Niurka: You know, someone may
say that it's my Cuban roots,
but may be a little bit of
that, because there's a lot fire
around my house.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: It's deeper
than that.
It's my purpose.
I know that I arrived
on Earth for a reason.
We all have.
Every one of us.
>> Lisa: And you connected
to that purpose every second.
>> Niurka: And I'm
in that purpose.
I am that purpose.
I'm the full expression
of that purpose.
And we all have that.
That's why it's so sweet
to be here with you.
You're living in
the full expression
of your purpose and
we're in this...
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: ...co-created space.
>> Lisa: Les.
>> Niurka: And flow.
And every person has that.
And, you know, my
vision in life is
to see every being
authentically living
in their purpose
and in their power.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: That's why I write.
That's why I speak.
That's why I create.
That's why.
>> Lisa: You teach.
>> Niurka: Yeah.
Absolutely.
>> Lisa: Well, we want
to be more like you.
So let's learn a little
bit about how to do
that because the how in me
needs to be satiated now.
So this particular side
that you've given us a
little bit of a teaching...
>> Niurka: Okay.
>> Lisa: ...curriculum here.
Is the bits of information
that come to us at all times,
what does that have to do
with living in that purpose?
>> Niurka: This is really
important because --
and it's usually how I introduce
part of my work, is that we live
in a universe of
infinite possibility.
And, you know, enlightened
masters have said
that for centuries.
Right now, science is
saying yes, we all are.
That there's infinite
possibilities that surround us
in our life, opportunities,
in all areas.
And that our neurology and
our brain can't take in all
of these possibilities.
I mean, it would be like
trying to download the whole...
>> Lisa: Too much.
>> Niurka: ...Internet.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: You know?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Without
a search engine.
It would be too much information
to what we do all day long.
And we all do it, is
we do three things.
We delete, we distort,
and we generalize reality,
and we pick up a tiny little
bit of what's going on.
And what we're picking
up in a field
of infinite possibilities
is what's in alignment
with our vibration,
with our vibe.
We are all vibrational beings.
And what's creating our vibe
is our focus, our thoughts,
our language, you know, our
belief systems; off of this.
So, you know, when you shift
what's going on within you,
what's out here shifts.
>> Lisa: Ah.
So you change the filters of
how you're seeing these bits
of information coming in.
So you no longer
delete; you take on.
Or you no longer distort; you
look at it for what it is.
You just change those different
types of filters, right?
Is what you're saying?
>> Well, there's still -- yeah.
There's still maybe other
things that you delete.
You might be deleting negativity
for example, you know,
and not allowing that,
you know, to come in.
But yes. Because we
realize from this teaching,
is that we've been programmed.
You know, psychologists say
that by the time we're eight
year old, we've had 25,000 hours
of linguistic programming.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: So words have been
downloaded into our minds.
>> Lisa: Our personalities
informed.
>> Niurka: Imprinting
ideas about who we are
and what's possible and about
money and about relationships...
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Niurka: ...and about, you
know, our own self worth.
And these ideas will
drive someone's life.
I say you're in that
law of association,
where your thoughts are
all just being associated
from things -- from the past.
And that happens
until we wake up.
>> Lisa: Mm-hmm.
>> Niurka: You go wait a minute.
I am more than this,
you know, programming.
>> Lisa: It's amazing they
don't teach this in school.
Why is that?
You're continuing to stay
in the frames of association
and school, that
there's a side here
to talk about the mind frame.
>> Niurka: Ah, the mind frames.
Yes. It's like we look
at life through frames.
So it's like if somebody
let's say is anchored
in a really negative frame...
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: ...they can look
at something that's wonderful
and they could say,
well, not for long.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Not for long.
Why is that?
Well, because perception
is projection.
>> Lisa: Explain
that [laughter].
>> Niurka: In other words,
perception is projection.
We do not describe what we see.
We see what we describe.
What we're perceiving
is in direct alignment
with the vibration we're in.
That's why you could
have five people look
at the exact same circumstance
and get five completely
different.
>> Lisa: Responses.
Yeah.
>> Niurka: Yeah.
One person sees opportunity,
the other person sees problem,
the other problem sees --
because they're looking
through the lens
of their own experience.
And part of my evolution
was coming into my own life,
is saying wait a minute.
There's some things here
that I'm really not
seeing in an empowered way.
>> Lisa: Uh-huh.
Absolutely.
So how do we change
those things?
What are the steps
that we can make to --
now that we've got
this great realization,
to change those filters?
Even to be aware of them in
the first place is, I think,
the first step, right?
>> Niurka: Awareness
is the first step.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: Because the second
you become aware of it,
you're not in it anymore.
Now, you're observing it.
You get new insights, new
resources, new understandings.
So really, we're moving
out of association,
or the conditioned mind, or,
you know, looping patterns
of thought where one thought
leads to another leads
to another, without any
real purpose or direction.
We rise from that,
first through awareness.
You know, observing it,
becoming curious about it.
I love becoming curious.
I always inspire my
students to become curious,
because then you get insights
that you wouldn't otherwise see.
And then, from associate,
we arise into contemplation.
Now, it's like, hmm.
Where's the origin of that?
Is that really true?
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: What else
could this mean?
What's the gift in it?
>> Lisa: Oh, nice, to be
grateful for it eventually.
>> Niurka: What am
I grateful for?
How can I transform this?
Who do I know that can
support me with it?
So rather than just being
anchored in the experience,
now you're observing
it, contemplating it.
And then, from there,
you get direction.
>> Lisa: So this side
that we're looking
at here is the first position,
third -- the second and third,
is basically a great
template for which to go
through these unconscious
patterns
in your life, is
first you do what?
First you?
>> Niurka: Well,
first, it's realizing
that every time we're
perceiving something,
we're in a particular
perceptual position.
>> Lisa: We're in it.
>> Niurka: We're.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: So if somebody's,
like, stuck in a problem,
stuck in a problem, stuck in a
problem, in their experience,
they're like in the
experience looking
out through their own eyes
and they're very
identified to the problem.
This is my problem.
You can hear it in
their language.
>> Lisa: Absolutely.
>> Niurka: I have this problem.
Well, the second you step
out of the problem...
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: ...and you
know what's that like.
Just put the problem up
on a movie screen and,
you know, take a relaxed seat.
>> Lisa: Oh, okay.
>> Niurka: And observe that
person on the screen that looks
like you or that
you on the screen,
and now become very
curious and go hmm.
Okay? What can I
learn from this?
Now, you're in a totally
different perceptual position.
>> Lisa: Okay.
So let's take an
example here of debt.
>> Niurka: Okay.
>> Lisa: Okay?
So you think you're in this
problem and you're in debt
and you can't get credit and
you can't afford anything
and you just project
yourself up on this screen.
And you look at the
-- first of all,
it looks like you in that debt.
>> Niurka: Okay.
>> Lisa: It's got to be
kind of painful to look at.
>> Niurka: You know, well
first, you want to put that up
on the screen and over
here, you go in neutral.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: You know?
So you're kind of
just watching a movie.
You can get some popcorn.
Get some popcorn.
>> Lisa: I wouldn't want
to watch that movie.
>> Niurka: Well, like
here's what you can do.
You can put it a
little further back.
You could even make it
black and white if you want.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And you
know what you could do
in there is you could bring
in a model of possibility.
>> Lisa: Explain.
>> Niurka: In other
words, you can see that you
on the screen doing that
thing that you used to do...
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: ...that you used to
stress and you used to worry
and you used to complain
and have doubt.
Well now, that you on the screen
is going to be next to a model
of possibility, and that model
of possibility is someone
who exemplifies that new
behavior or that new state
that you want, which is what?
Confidence, certainty.
>> Lisa: Oh, okay.
>> Niurka: O...
>> Lisa: Someone that would
exemplify that, not just some
that would come in
in angel wings
and take away all the debt.
You're talking about...
>> Niurka: Well.
>> Lisa: ...some
-- like a model.
>> Niurka: Yes.
Because here's the thing,
is that like a lot of times,
people are going, oh,
can I get the angel wings
and this and that?
And you know what?
You can cheat yourself
from the amazing growth,
the profound experience,
of the journey
of your own transformation,
which may be a part
of your own purpose to somehow
support others in navigating
through their challenges.
And it's you being in that
experience, in that moment,
that's going to carve
you to become the master.
That greatest challenge.
You know what I found, Lisa,
is that the greatest challenges
in my life have evolved to
become my greatest gifts.
That is such a key distinction.
That not wanting to go into
the fairy tale I can pray
for all this to work out.
I know in divine intention.
>> Lisa: Well, if you really
go into the nitty-gritty part
of the lessons, you're
apt to get it faster; huh?
>> Niurka: Yes.
And to be willing to
go into the dark place.
You know, earlier you had
asked me what does Niurka mean?
And, you know, we didn't
go into too much detail,
but Niurka is actually a
Russian expression corresponding
to mink.
>> Lisa: Mink.
>> Niurka: Mink.
You know what the
interesting thing about mink?
>> Lisa: No.
>> Niurka: Mink goes into
the deep dark places.
>> Lisa: The animal?
>> Niurka: It's a
source of wisdom.
Yeah.
>> Lisa: Huh.
>> Niurka: You know,
it's -- as a totem...
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: ...if you will.
But it's one of the gifts that
I feel that I have been brought
on this planet with, to
be able to guide people
in a safe loving container.
>> Lisa: To those deep.
>> Niurka: Into these deep
dark places, to source
and integrate profound wisdom,
and then to bring that through
in their offering, their gifts,
their expression;
whatever that is.
And, you know, it's also
about creating rich
environments to thrive.
And that's like, you know,
the lotus flower grows
in the muddy swamp.
A lot of times go, "I want
the lotus, but not the swamp."
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
The diamond in the rough.
Yeah. So you have to get through
the perturbation
of the -- around the rough
to get to the diamond.
And it's true.
In -- so in this stepped process
of putting yourself up on
that screen, becoming the
observer, and then looking
for the model of reference,
that is a great way
of breaking a habit.
Breaking -- and creating
a new one.
>> Niurka: Absolutely.
And you know what's interesting?
Is when I guide people through
this and they're looking
at that model of possibility,
they can see how
that person moves.
They can describe them
sometimes to me to a T. So then,
the question becomes,
well wait a minute.
You have a full and complete
understanding of what would work
in this particular
area of your life.
In other words, they
know it intellectually,
but it hasn't integrated yet.
>> Lisa: But then.
>> Niurka: Through a series
of exercises and practices...
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: ...I get them to
start breathing different.
>> Lisa: Oh, interesting.
>> Niurka: You know, the
mind controls the body,
but the breath directs the mind.
I get them to start
feeling it in their body.
>> Lisa: Uh-huh.
>> Niurka: And then, from that
place, shifting their thoughts,
shifting their language,
shifting their focus
with something as simple
as breathing different.
>> Lisa: That's o.
>> Niurka: Holding
your body different
>> Lisa: You know that phrase
that nothing is created
without it being
a thought first?
>> Niurka: Uh-huh.
>> Lisa: So then, that exercise
gets it into being the thought.
The feeling, the emotion,
the breath, all of that,
it actually allows you to
go into a different reality.
>> Niurka: Exactly.
>> Lisa: And that's where
you start to create from.
>> Niurka: Mm-hmm.
>> Lisa: Because you
can feel it and see it.
Interesting.
Okay. So [laughter].
I want to take a look here
at Niurka talking about being
on purpose and what that
really, really means.
And again, this is
to a corporation.
This is to a group of employees.
Take a look.
>> Niurka: Every single one
of you has a unique purpose.
There's something about
you that only you can bring
into the world and that when
you bring it, fully expressed,
our experience of
reality collectively
as one family on Earth elevates.
The quality of your
life mirrors the quality
of the questions that you ask.
When you change, the
world around you changes.
That you have that much power.
Because the mind controls
the body, but it's the breath
which directs the mind.
Fine. Open up your
heart's center.
Let's bring all of
your consciousness,
all of your energy,
all of your attention.
What we're speaking, what we're
putting out into the world,
it's what's returning unto us.
That the word has
power to create.
Do you believe it's
possible to be so purposeful
with your communication that you
only speak things into existence
that are in alignment with what
you're committed to create?
Universe of infinite
possibilities.
You're not looking
out there in your life
and in your business ventures
and your relationships
and describing what
you're actually seeing.
That's not what's going on.
What's going on is
that what's showing
up is mirroring what
you're focused on,
what you're declaring, what
you're speaking into existence.
The pictures, sounds, and
feelings in your mind.
So when you shift what's in
here, what's out here shifts.
So right now, we're going
to get really purposeful,
to ask questions with purpose,
poise, precision, and power.
Every time you speak,
your statements
and your questions contain
within their structure what
I call a presupposition.
Presuppositions are imbedded
assumptions in language
that trigger your brain to
find things in a universe
of infinite possibilities
that are in alignment
with what you declare.
Give you an example of
an empowered question.
You could write this one
down and you could utilize it
for yourself if you wish.
It was a question
I created years ago
and it's elevated every area
of my life, is the question
of how can I be even more aware
of the unlimited opportunities
that surround me in
my life right now?
Now, what does that
question presuppose?
How can I be even more
aware presupposes what?
That you're aware.
Of the unlimited
opportunities presupposes what?
And exists when?
Right now.
Your values and your beliefs
are underlying drivers
that fuel your behaviors
and actions
that ultimately determine
your results.
That's because I have this
vision and the vision is
to see every being on
this planet, every one,
authentically living in
their purpose and power.
That's why I'm here [applause].
[ Music ]
>> Lisa: So when you bring these
conversations into corporations,
how do you frame it to these --
to major corporations where
things might be broken,
there might be discontentment
within the employees.
They're not all aligned
to the purpose.
Like, it's broken.
So how do you go in and start
this conversation that's touchy
feeling, but important?
>> Niurka: Well,
that's a great question.
I come in and I really
meet them where they are,
to understand what
the experience is.
And I honor where they are
and I make it okay to be
where they are as
a starting point.
And then, I believe really clear
with where are we
committed to be?
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And then, I
go through the process
of understanding what's been
the barriers or the obstacles
or the limitations in the way?
And then, from there, guiding
through a series of different...
>> Lisa: That's important.
>> Niurka: ...processes
of bridging the gap
from here to here.
I mean, in the past I was
doing a lot of consulting work.
Now, I don't do as
much consulting work
because the results I get in
my courses are so profound
that I guide the leaders
to bring their leaders
and their teams to the courses
because then they learn the
skills to be able to come back
and create it for
themselves rather
than to need me to
be in there...
>> Lisa: That makes sense.
>> Niurka: ...navigating
these changes
for them, and I prefer that.
>> Lisa: That makes sense.
>> Niurka: So.
>> Lisa: So you give
them this framework.
So we have beliefs, focus,
language, and physiology.
>> Niurka: Yes.
>> Lisa: We didn't touch
as much on language.
Let's talk a little
bit about that.
>> Niurka: About language?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Well, I always
say when you open your mouth
to speak, how many
possibilities are there
of what could come out?
>> Lisa: To really
focus on that.
>> Niurka: Well, that there's
infinite possibilities.
>> Lisa: Oh, okay.
>> Niurka: Of what could
come out of our mouth.
But something comes out and that
what we're speaking really does
two things.
It shapes.
It shapes our life
and it reveals.
>> Lisa: So do you think
about it before you say it?
Is that what you're doing?
I mean, you really consciously
think about what you're going
to say and how many
possibilities can be loaded
in the statement that about
to find it or you're not?
>> Niurka: No.
>> Lisa: That would be kind
of lots going on, right?
>> Niurka: I get very
clear with my intent.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And then,
what happens is that I --
there's certain things that
are important to understand.
For example, every statement you
make, every question you ask,
contains within its
structure a presupposition.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: Which is an imbedded
assumption within language
that causes your brain to
go find things that are
in alignment with
what you're declaring.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: So just
understanding that.
I mean, once I did a
corporate and one man came
up to me right before I
was getting to go on stage
and it was like 2008 and it was
in the real estate business.
And he said to me, you
know, "Can you talk
about how we can
survive in this market?"
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Niurka: He had a
minute, 30 seconds, with me.
He could have asked me anything.
He could have opened the door
of opportunity, but the word
that came out was how
am I going to survive?
>> Lisa: Survive.
>> Niurka: Which instantly
let me know the state
that he was in.
But also, it activates
his energy field
to go look for survival.
And the thing is is
that in a universe
of infinite possibilities,
it's all available.
Whatever you call in,
you will experience.
So that's when, you know,
I guided him to go, okay.
Well, what are the
presuppositions
in this question?
Now, you opened with one
of my favorite questions.
>> Lisa: Yes.
I love it.
>> Niurka: And I
have so many of them.
The presuppositions
in that question,
how can I even more aware of
the unlimited opportunities
that surround me in my
life right now presupposes
that you are aware that
there's unlimited opportunities
and that they're
surrounding you.
And you know what's interesting,
I recently did a
corporate engagement
and someone had gift the
founder and president
of this company one
of my multimedia sets.
He had no idea who I was.
It sat on his desk as a
paperweight for years.
And then, all of a sudden,
he started commuting.
He was commuting and he said,
"Let me just listen to it.
Might as well listen to it."
That one question and
the other questions
that he started asking himself,
he said -- he called our office.
"I've never met you.
This has completely
transformed my life.
In the last 90 days,
our opportunity pipeline
of our business has increased
by over $50 million, in 90 days.
>> Lisa: Just by.
>> Niurka: And it's specifically
because of the function
of the questions that I, as a
leader, have been asking myself,
and I want you to be
the keynote speaker
at our national convention.
>> Lisa: Awesome.
Awesome. Wow.
>> Niurka: So questions
have power.
>> Lisa: Yes, they do.
And words have power
and language have power.
>> Niurka: And those four,
when they come together,
the language, beliefs,
focus, and physiology,
they come together and
they produce a state,
a state of mind,
a state of being.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And then,
that state, that vibe,
determines what you're
perceiving,
what you're attracting...
>> Lisa: Okay.
Okay.
>> Niurka: ...into your life.
>> Lisa: And then, those states
then turn into goals, right?
You take that state of what
you want to be; yes, no?
>> Niurka: This is really...
>> Lisa: I don't know.
>> Niurka: ...great.
I'm -- yeah.
Actually, I love
what you're saying
because it's absolutely right.
Call in the state and live in
the embodiment of the state;
a state of empowerment,
a state of inspiration,
a state of enthusiasm,
state of gratitude.
Live in that state and then from
that state, consciously create.
Now, what a lot of
people do is they say,
well, I want to be happy.
>> Lisa: Right.
Right.
>> Niurka: I want to be free.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: I want to have peace.
>> Lisa: Freedom.
>> Niurka: I want
to have security.
And they stay or they make
-- they stay in a state.
They declare a state
as if it's a goal.
In other words, if someone says,
well, I want to really be free.
>> Lisa: Explain that, though.
That's important.
>> Niurka: This is
really important...
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: ...because
they're taking something
that can be experienced
right now...
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Niurka: ...and they're
making it out there.
I can guide anyone to
experience peace in this moment,
but a lot of people, because
they're not aware of this,
they'll say to themselves,
well, I will feel peace
or I will feel free once I have
this much money in the bank
and I have the perfect
relationship and this happens
and this happens, and, you
know, I'm 100% debt free.
And then, what they do is they
cheat themselves out of the joy
of living in the
most empowered state.
And because their
vibration is low,
because they're not allowing
themselves to have the gift
of that state, then
they can't achieve.
So what I teach -- and I
actually teach this at a course
that I do every January
about achieving big goals,
goals that are in alignment
with your true purpose
and with your higher self.
I guide people to be in the
most empowered state first.
And a great example of this is I
see people create vision boards.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: But while
they're creating it...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Niurka: ...they have doubt.
Oh, I hope it happens.
I wish it happens.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Niurka: How is
this going to work?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Niurka: I mean,
doubt gets imbedded in.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: Well, instead,
activate the state
and then the goal will
happen as a natural action.
>> Lisa: You gave me a great
piece of coaching on that.
Because I have my
vision board on my desk.
>> Niurka: Okay.
>> Lisa: And I have it as
a screensaver on my phone.
>> Niurka: Oh.
>> Lisa: And so, I keep
it all over the place.
So I'm constantly looking
and checking at a conscious
and unconscious level.
And you told me that my vision
board didn't have a title
and the title is the essence.
And that was a brilliant
piece of coaching.
Because I gave my
vision board a title.
>> Niurka: I love that.
>> Lisa: And I made it
-- the title is joy.
Everything that I am creating
in this vision board of mine is
to be created with joy.
And joy is the essence from
which I am creating it.
And in the -- is the
essence I am always in.
And sometimes fall out of
and want to get back to.
So yeah.
>> Niurka: I love that.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Thank you very much.
>> Niurka: You know, in my book
I have -- you're so welcome.
>> Lisa: Thank you.
>> Niurka: You're so welcome.
I have a chapter in
there or a section
in a chapter called
"The Power to Name."
And there is incredible
power in naming something.
It's like if you have a
project, if you have, you know,
something that you want to
create, to really name it
with intention and that
that name will have power,
it'll begin to attract things
that harmonize with a resonance.
>> Lisa: That's what
this name is doing.
I just came up with it
yesterday in talking to you.
>> Niurka: Joy.
>> Lisa: So I get to -- yes.
So I get to that.
So -- all right.
So just a last piece of
teaching here is just --
kind of looks like the chakras
is what we're looking at.
>> Niurka: It does; doesn't it?
>> Lisa: Uh-huh.
>> Niurka: Actually,
this is a rendition,
my own rendition, of
a teaching in NLP.
And they call it the
neurological levels.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: But for me, this is
living in supreme influence.
It's when all aspects
are in alignment.
So you see the chakras are there
and at the top it's
your higher self,
which is in alignment
with your vision.
It's being in complete
alignment.
So actually, this is an exercise
that I do also in my courses,
where at the bottom
you see environment.
I'll guide people to step
in in their mind to begin
to create the environment that
they're inspired to live by.
And then, from there,
we rise to behaviors.
What are the behaviors and
the actions that you're taking
on a day-to-day basis?
What are your daily practices?
And from there, we
rise to capabilities.
Okay. So how are you expanding
your capabilities to live
in the full expression of this?
And then, we go to
beliefs and then we go
to the sense of identity.
And from there, my
I Am presence.
Who I am in my highest
expression,
in my union with whatever
you want to call it; spirit,
my higher self, God,
source, energy.
And then, from that place, then
I guide them to come back down,
bringing that highest energy in
all the levels, all the way back
out to their environment.
And that's what supreme
influence is,
it's creating that alignments.
>> Lisa: Do those.
>> Niurka: So it's like
an active mediation.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
No. It's great.
Do the levels change
when you come back
down with that essence in mind?
>> Niurka: They do.
Because then you kind of rose
up and then when you were there,
you literally feel -- it's
like your rising on octave
and you feel that
vibrational shift.
And, you know, I have certain
music playing in the background.
I have -- I'm all about creating
this space for transformation.
So you're lifted into
this place and then
from there, you see differently.
You're seeing from
a place of wholeness
and unity and empowerment.
>> Lisa: Uh-huh.
>> Niurka: And then, yeah.
By the time you walk
back down, ooh,
you'll get to that capabilities
and you're like I am ready.
>> Lisa: Yes.
I can see how that would
completely shift any vision
or a goal that you have.
It would completely change it.
And so, you do this
in your courses.
>> Niurka: I do.
>> Lisa: Tell me a little
bit about your courses
and about your company
and so forth.
It's SIIA, right?
>> Niurka: Well, that's
my signature course, SIIA,
which stands for Supreme
Influence In Action.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And my
courses are my heart.
This is where I bring my true
purpose into actualization
and where I'm able
to do my surface work
and to really connect with
people at a deeper level.
And I have different courses
for different purposes.
I mean, SIIA is a course
on communication mastery...
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: ...and evolved NLP.
And it guides people to
communicate with purpose,
poise, precision, and power.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Niurka: And then,
you know, it's five days
and I do another
course just for women.
I love this one.
>> Lisa: Oh, nice.
>> Niurka: It's called
The Goddess Garden.
>> Lisa: Nice.
>> Niurka: And it's a
three-day journey of alchemy.
And, you know.
>> Lisa: Coming into
your power as a woman?
>> Niurka: Completely
coming into your --
the full spectrum of your
divine feminine power and grace.
And then, how to activate
all these different energies
and then how to balance
and thrive
in the most important roles
we play in our families,
in our businesses, in our
communities, in our sensuality,
sexuality, and as powerful
leaders in our emerging world.
And then, I do one that
is also very near and dear
to my heart, Neogenesis.
Neo stands for new,
genesis is beginning.
And that's where I do a
lot of deep shadow work
where I will guide people
to uncover what have been
the deep subconscious values
and beliefs that have been
driving my life up until now?
>> Lisa: Seems like they're
all really good course.
I mean, they...
>> Niurka: They're amazing.
>> Lisa: ...build on.
>> Niurka: And I'm
constantly evolving them.
>> Lisa: Yes.
Yes.
>> Niurka: With all the
other work that I do,
the books that, you know, the.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Niurka: These are
all extensions of.
>> Lisa: Of these courses.
>> Niurka: The courses
is the nucleus.
>> Lisa: Beautiful.
Wow. You were such a
fountain of information,
no longer a kid [laughter].
You have evolved as a beautiful
woman and to be a presentation
to us, to what you've been
able to create is phenomenal.
So thank you so much
for being here with me
and being the example
and the inspiration
to many, many people.
And if you would like to watch
my interview with Niurka,
you can share it with your
friends and go to gaiamtv.com
and you can watch a
replay of the interview.
And until next time, I invite
you all to stay inspired.
[ Music ]